Update/deployment guides v2 (#4068)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/deployment-examples.md

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Deployment Examples"
short-title: "Deployment Examples"
---
This document presents example config for a variately of popular deployment targets. Many of the examples use orbs: CircleCI and partners have developed a catalogue of orbs that enable you to quickly deploy applications with minimal config. Details of all orbs can be found in the [CircleCI Orbs Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/).

* TOC
{:toc}

#### Notes on Examples
{:.no_toc}

> * In order to use orbs you must use `version 2.1` config, and enable pipelines for your project. 

Reviewer: I've just merged the pipelines snippet if you want to use that here!

Author: 🎉

Author: Just realised I would have to rebase again so I will make this change after this PR gets merged I think 😅

> * If you wish to remain using `version 2.0` config, or are using a self-hosted installation of CircleCI Server, the examples shown here are still relevant because you can view the expanded orb source within the [Orbs Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/) to see how the jobs are built.

Author: Not sure this bit about 2.0 users looking at the orb source is legit, but thought I'd stick it in for now as it makes sense to me 🤷🏻‍♀️

Reviewer: Yep, this is true (and I think you should leave it in)!

- [AWS CodeDeploy](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/orb/circleci/aws-code-deploy)

### Deploy to S3

#### Using the AWS S3 Orb
{:.no_toc}

For detailed information about the AWS S3 orb, refer to the [CircleCI AWS S3 Orb Reference](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/orb/circleci/aws-s3) page. This section details the use of the AWS S3 orb and `version: 2.1` config for simple deployment, below we will look at the same example without orbs and using using `version: 2` config.

1. For security best practice, create a new [IAM user](https://aws.amazon.com/iam/details/manage-users/) specifically for CircleCI.

2. Add your [AWS access keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html#access-keys-and-secret-access-keys) to CircleCI – store your Access Key ID in a variable called `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and your Secret Access Key in a variable called `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`. {% include snippets/env-var-or-context.md %}

3. Use the orb's `sync` command to deploy. Note the use of [workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows/) to deploy only if the `build` job passes and the current branch is `master`.
  

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

          family: '${MY_APP_PREFIX}-service'
          cluster-name: '${MY_APP_PREFIX}-cluster'
          container-image-name-updates: 'container=${MY_APP_PREFIX}-service,tag=${CIRCLE_SHA1}'
```

### AWS CodeDeploy

The [AWS CodeDeploy](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/orb/circleci/aws-code-deploy) orb enables you to run deployments through AWS CodeDeploy.

```
version: 2.1 # use 2.1 to make use of orbs and pipelines

orbs:
  aws-code-deploy: circleci/aws-code-deploy@x.y.z # Use the AWS CodeDeploy orb in your config

workflows:
  deploy_application:
    jobs:
      - aws-code-deploy/deploy:
          application-name: myApplication # The name of an AWS CodeDeploy application associated with the applicable IAM user or AWS account.
          deployment-group: myDeploymentGroup # The name of a new deployment group for the specified application.
          service-role-arn: myDeploymentGroupRoleARN # The service role for a deployment group.
          bundle-bucket: myApplicationS3Bucket # The s3 bucket where an application revision will be stored.
          bundle-key: myS3BucketKey # A key under the s3 bucket where an application revision will be stored.
```

> ## Azure Container Registry

Author: This whole example is new so needs thoroughly checking

  
```
version: 2.1 # Use version 2.1 config to get access to orbs, pipelines

orbs:
  azure-acr: circleci/azure-acr@x.y.z # Use the Azure ACR orb in your config

workflows: 
  build-deploy:
    jobs:
      - azure/build-and-push-image:
          dockerfile: <name-of-your-dockerfile> # defaults to `Dockerfile`
          path: <path-to-your-dockerfile> # Defaults to working directory
          login-server-name: <your-login-server-name> # e.g. {yourregistryname}.azure.io
          registry-name: <your-ACR-registry-name>
          repo: <URI-to-your-login-server-name>
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master # Only deploys when the commit is on the Master branch
```

If pushing to your repo is required, see the [Adding Read/Write Deployment Keys to GitHub or Bitbucket]( {{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/gh-bb-integration/) section of the GitHub and Bitbucket Integration document for instructions. Then, configure the Azure Web App to use your production branch.

## Capistrano

> Integrating CircleCI with Capistrano is simple. Once your project is set up to use Capistrano, just run [deployment commands](https://github.com/capistrano/capistrano/blob/master/README.md#command-line-usage) within your CircleCI job steps as required.

Reviewer: Opinionated comment: I would maybe remove the "is simple" line just to be inclusive of user's of all experience levels.

Author: Oh yeah good point!

      cf set-env app-name-dark circle_repo ${CIRCLE_PROJECT_REPONAME}
      # Start the application
      cf start app-name-dark
      # Ensure dark route is exclusive to dark app
      cf unmap-route app-name example.com -n dark || echo "Dark Route Already exclusive"
```

### Live Deployment
{:.no_toc}

Until now, the previously pushed "app-name" has not changed.  The final step is to route the production URL to our dark application, stop traffic to the previous version, and rename the applications.

```
- run:
    name: Re-route live Domain to latest
    command: |
      # Send "real" url to new version
      cf map-route app-name-dark example.com -n www
      # Stop sending traffic to previous version
      cf unmap-route app-name example.com -n www
      # stop previous version
      cf stop app-name
      # delete previous version
      cf delete app-name -f
      # Switch name of "dark" version to claim correct name
      cf rename app-name-dark app-name
```

### Manual Approval
{:.no_toc}

For additional control or validation, you can add a manual "hold" step between the dark and live steps as shown in the sample workflow below.

```
workflows:

>   version: 2 # Not required for `version 2.2` config

Author: ```suggestion
  version: 2 # Not required for `version 2.1` config
```

>   version: 2 # Not required for `version 2.2` config

Reviewer: 2.2? or 2.1?

Author: oops!

```
npm install --save-dev firebase-tools
```

Generate a Firebase CLI token using the following command:

```
firebase login:ci
```

Add the generated token to the CircleCI project's environment variables as `$FIREBASE_DEPLOY_TOKEN`. {% include snippets/env-var-or-context.md %}

The following example shows how you can add a deploy to Firebase job to your project's `config.yml` file. This snippet assumes you already have a job to build your application, called `build-job`, and introduces a deployment workflow that only runs the deployment job once the build job has completed **and** you're on the master branch.

```

 deploy-job:
   docker:
     - image: <docker-image-name-tag>
   working_directory: /tmp/my-project
   steps:
     - run:
         name: Deploy Master to Firebase
         command: ./node_modules/.bin/firebase deploy --token=$FIREBASE_DEPLOY_TOKEN

workflows:
  version: 2
  deploy:
    jobs:
      - build-job
      - deploy-job:
          requires:
            - build-job
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master

```

> If using Google Cloud Functions with Firebase, instruct CircleCI to navigate to the folder where the Google Cloud Functions are held (in this case 'functions') and run npm install by adding the below to `config.yml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using Google Cloud Functions with Firebase, instruct CircleCI to navigate to the folder where the Google Cloud Functions are held (in this case 'functions') and run `npm install` by adding the below to `config.yml`:
```

            - run: echo 'or provide a workspace'
          context: your-context
          domain: your-domain
          manifest: null
          org: your-org
          package: null
          space: your-space
          validate_steps: 
            # Call any orbs or custom commands that validate the health of deployed application before letting Green deploy/reroute proceed.
            # For example,  hitting a /health endpoint with curl and making sure the dark URL returns a 200.
```

If you would like more detailed information about various CloudFoundry orb elements that you can use in your configuration workflows, refer to the [CloudFoundry Orb](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/orb/circleci/cloudfoundry) page in the [CircleCI Orbs Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/).

### Deploy to Cloud Foundry with 2.0 Config

Cloud Foundry deployments require the Cloud Foundry CLI. Be sure to match the architecture to your Docker image (the commands below assume you are using a Debian-based image). This example pattern implements "Blue-Green" deployments using Cloud Foundry's map-route/unmap-route commands, which is an optional feature above and beyond a basic `cf push`.

> #### Install the CLI

Author: I would much rather display this as one full config rather than snippet sections - but I don't feel confident to put it together myself. Any help appreciated!

Author: Yeah just show a full config example and talk about it - I think it's easier to follow that way but that's just me, I am happy to be wrong :-)

workflows:
  version: 2
  build-deploy:
    jobs:
      - build-job 
      - deploy-job:
          requires:
            - build-job # Only deploy once the build job has completed
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master # Only deploy on the master branch

```
{% endraw %}

For another example, see our [CircleCI Google Cloud deployment example project](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/circleci-demo-k8s-gcp-hello-app).

## Heroku

[Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/) is a popular platform for hosting applications in the cloud. To configure CircleCI
to deploy your application to Heroku, follow the steps below.

### Deploy with the Heroku Orb

1. Create a Heroku account and follow the [Getting Started on Heroku](https://devcenter.heroku.com/start) documentation
to set up a project in your chosen language.

2. Add the name of your Heroku application and your Heroku API key as environment variables as `HEROKU_APP_NAME` and `HEROKU_API_KEY`, respectively. {% include snippets/env-var-or-context.md %}

> 3. Use the [Heroku orb](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/orb/circleci/heroku) to keep your config simple. The `deploy-via-git` installs the Heroku CLI in the primary container, runs any pre deployment steps you define, deploys your application, then runs any post-deployment steps you define. See the Heroku orb page in the [orbs registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/orb/circleci/heroku) for full details of parameters and options:

Author: do the pre-deploy and post-deploy steps get added within the workflows sections of the config? There isn 't a usage example for these bits in the orb ref page.

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Deployment Examples"
short-title: "Deployment Examples"
---

> This document presents example config for a variately of popular deployment targets. Many of the examples use orbs: CircleCI and partners have developed a catalogue of orbs that enable you to quickly deploy applications with minimal config. Details of all orbs can be found in the [CircleCI Orbs Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/).

Author: I think I disagree, I think colons can be used when you have two clauses, when the second expands on the first...

> This document presents example config for a variately of popular deployment targets. Many of the examples use orbs: CircleCI and partners have developed a catalogue of orbs that enable you to quickly deploy applications with minimal config. Details of all orbs can be found in the [CircleCI Orbs Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/).

Author: But to make this easier I'm just going to use a `.`

> 

Reviewer 2: Are there any orbs for deploying Helm packages to Kubernetes? I feel like that'd be a really great example to have.

Author: Oh great, thanks for this idea, I am going to add it to my to do list :-)

* TOC
{:toc}

#### Notes on Examples
{:.no_toc}

* In order to use orbs you must use `version 2.1` config, and enable pipelines for your project. 
* We have indicated where you need to specify a [docker image for your job]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/optimizations/#docker-image-choice) with `<docker-image-name-tag>`.
* If you wish to remain using `version 2.0` config, or are using a self-hosted installation of CircleCI Server, the examples shown here are still relevant because you can view the expanded orb source within the [Orbs Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/) to see how the jobs are built.

> * In the examples on this page that use orbs, you will notice that the orbs are versioned with tags, for example, `aws-s3: circleci/aws-s3@x.y.z`. If you copy paste any examples you will need to edit `x.y.z` to specify a version. You can find the available versions listed on the individual orb pages in the [CircleCI Orbs Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/).

Reviewer 2: Is there a way to always load the latest orb version? Maybe that would be better for the examples?

Author: Unfortunately I don't think so

* Any items in these examples that appear within `< >` should be replaced with your own parameters.

## AWS

> This section covers deployment to S3, ECR/ECS (Elastic Container Registry/Elastic Container Service), as well as application deployment using AWS Code Deploy. For an in-depth look at deploying to AWS ECS from ECR, see the [Deploying to AWS ECS/ECR document]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/ecs-ecr/).

Reviewer 2: All of the deploy examples look really good. I checked the ones I'm familiar with for accuracy. I don't know how anything about Azure, Capistrano, Cloud Foundry, or Firebase.

Author: Thanks so much for your help with this :-)

3. Use the orb's `sync` command to deploy. Note the use of [workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows/) to deploy only if the `build` job passes and the current branch is `master`.

    {% raw %}  
    ```
    version: 2.1 

    orbs:
      aws-s3: circleci/aws-s3@x.y.z # use the AWS S3 orb in your config

    workflows: # Define a Workflow running the build job, then the deploy job
      version: 2
      build-deploy: # Make a workflow to build and deploy your project
        jobs:
          - build
          - deploy:
              requires:
                - build # Only run deploy job once the build job has completed
              filters:
                branches:
                  only: master # Only deploy when the commit is on the Master branch

    jobs: # Define the build and deploy jobs
      build:
        docker: # Use the Docker executor for the build job
          - image: <image-name-and-tag> # Specify the Docker image to use for the build job
      ... # build job steps omitted for brevity
      deploy:
        docker: # Use the Docker executor for the deploy job

>           - image: <image-name-and-tag>  Specify the Docker image to use for the deploy job

Author: Good spot!

```

If you would like more detailed information about various CloudFoundry orb elements that you can use in your configuration workflows, refer to the [CloudFoundry Orb](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/orb/circleci/cloudfoundry) page in the [CircleCI Orbs Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/).

### Deploy to Cloud Foundry with 2.0 Config
{:.no_toc}

Cloud Foundry deployments require the Cloud Foundry CLI. Be sure to match the architecture to your Docker image (the commands below assume you are using a Debian-based image). This example pattern implements "Blue-Green" deployments using Cloud Foundry's map-route/unmap-route commands, which is an optional feature above and beyond a basic `cf push`.

#### Install the CLI
{:.no_toc}

```
- run:
    name: Setup CF CLI
    command: |
      curl -v -L -o cf-cli_amd64.deb 'https://cli.run.pivotal.io/stable?release=debian64&source=github'
      sudo dpkg -i cf-cli_amd64.deb
      cf -v
      cf api https://api.run.pivotal.io  # alternately target your private Cloud Foundry deployment
      cf auth "$CF_USER" "$CF_PASSWORD"
      cf target -o "$CF_ORG" -s "$CF_SPACE"
```

#### Dark Deployment
{:.no_toc}

> This is the first step in a Blue-Green deployment, pushing the application to non-production routes.

Author: Yeah good point - I asked on Slack to find out I think.

      - hold:
          type: approval
          requires:
            - dark-deploy
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
      - live-deploy:
          requires:
            - hold # manual approval required via the CircleCI UI to run the live-deploy job
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
```

## Firebase

In order to deploy to Firebase you will need to add `firebase-tools` to your project's devDependencies since attempting to install firebase-tools globally in CircleCI will not work.

```
npm install --save-dev firebase-tools
```

Generate a Firebase CLI token using the following command:

```
firebase login:ci
```

Add the generated token to the CircleCI project's environment variables as `$FIREBASE_DEPLOY_TOKEN`. {% include snippets/env-var-or-context.md %}

The following example shows how you can add a deploy to Firebase job to your project's `config.yml` file. This snippet assumes you already have a job to build your application, called `build-job`, and introduces a deployment workflow that only runs the deployment job once the build job has completed **and** you're on the master branch.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

>  deploy-job:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  deploy-job:
```
Should be two spaces of indentation for correct yaml.

Reviewer: Actually, I think everything in this block might need one additional space. also, this example is pretty close to being a full config, no? Maybe we should just add the full thing for increased copy-paste-ability (I think it just needs a `version` and `jobs` key

Author: Yeah that's a good idea, I'll see what I can do

Author: I'm going to add this to my to do list - I think Adam is working on a new Firebase example anyway.

workflows:
  version: 2
  deploy:
    jobs:
      - build-job
      - deploy-job:
          requires:
            - build-job
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master

```

If using Google Cloud Functions with Firebase, instruct CircleCI to navigate to the folder where the Google Cloud Functions are held (in this case 'functions') and run `npm install` by adding the below to `config.yml`:

```
   - run: cd functions && npm install
```

## Google Cloud Platform

Before deploying to Google Cloud Platform, you will need to authorize the Google Cloud SDK and set default configuration settings. Refer to the [Authorizing the Google Cloud SDK]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/google-auth/) document for full details.

### Using Google Cloud Orbs
{:.no_toc}

There are several Google Cloud orbs available in the [CircleCI Orbs Registry](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/) that you can use to simplify your deployments. For example, the [Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) orb](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/orb/circleci/gcp-gke#usage-publish-and-rollout-image) has a pre-built job to build and publish a Docker image, and roll the image out to a GKE cluster, as follows:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

          cluster-name: '${MY_APP_PREFIX}-cluster'
          container-image-name-updates: 'container=${MY_APP_PREFIX}-service,tag=${CIRCLE_SHA1}'
```

{% endraw %}

### AWS CodeDeploy
{:.no_toc}

The [AWS CodeDeploy](https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/orb/circleci/aws-code-deploy) orb enables you to run deployments through AWS CodeDeploy.

{% raw %}

```yaml
version: 2.1 # use 2.1 to make use of orbs and pipelines

orbs:
  aws-code-deploy: circleci/aws-code-deploy@x.y.z # Use the AWS CodeDeploy orb in your config

workflows:
  deploy_application:
    jobs:
      - aws-code-deploy/deploy:
          application-name: <my-application> # The name of an AWS CodeDeploy application associated with the applicable IAM user or AWS account.
          deployment-group: <my-deployment-group> # The name of a new deployment group for the specified application.
          service-role-arn: <my-deployment-group-role-ARN> # The service role for a deployment group.
          bundle-bucket: <my-application-S3-bucket> # The s3 bucket where an application revision will be stored.
          bundle-key: <my-S3-bucket-key> # A key under the s3 bucket where an application revision will be stored.
```

> {% raw %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% endraw %}
```

### Deploy to Cloud Foundry with 2.0 Config
{:.no_toc}

Cloud Foundry deployments require the Cloud Foundry CLI. Be sure to match the architecture to your Docker image (the commands below assume you are using a Debian-based image). This example pattern implements "Blue-Green" deployments using Cloud Foundry's map-route/unmap-route commands, which is an optional feature above and beyond a basic `cf push`.

#### Install the CLI
{:.no_toc}

```yaml
      - run:
          name: Setup CF CLI
          command: |
            curl -v -L -o cf-cli_amd64.deb 'https://cli.run.pivotal.io/stable?release=debian64&source=github'
            sudo dpkg -i cf-cli_amd64.deb
            cf -v
            cf api https://api.run.pivotal.io  # alternately target your private Cloud Foundry deployment
            cf auth "$CF_USER" "$CF_PASSWORD"
            cf target -o "$CF_ORG" -s "$CF_SPACE"
```

#### Dark Deployment
{:.no_toc}

This is the first step in a [Blue-Green](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/blue-green.html) deployment, pushing the application to non-production routes.

{% raw %}

```yaml
      - run:
          name: CF Deploy
          command: |

>             # push artifacts on "dark" subdomain, not yet starting so we can attach environment variables

Author: ```suggestion
            # push artifacts on "dark" subdomain, and set environment variables before running `cf start`.
```
